#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\exhyphenpenalty=10000\hyphenpenalty=10000
\widowpenalty=10000
\clubpenalty=10000
\raggedbottom
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family sfdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
InstantWP User Guide
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Seamus Brady <seamus@corvideon.ie>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
May 2017
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
InstantWP is a complete standalone, portable WordPress development environment.
 It turns any Windows or Mac machine into a WordPress development server.
 It should even run from a USB key.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP contains a virtual webserver wrapped in a simple user interface
 that should that start up in under a minute.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP has been under development since 2008 and was first developed
 as a WordPress teaching tool.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP has been downloaded over a million times.
 InstantWP is used worldwide in universities, schools and businesses for
 teaching, developing and working with WordPress.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Design Principles
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main design principles behind InstantWP are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP is portable.
 No software should be installed on the user's machine outside of the InstantWP
 folder.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP is simple.
 Using InstantWP should be easy for a beginner.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP is quick.
 It should be fast to create quick, disposable WordPress installs for testing,
 teaching or development.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP is useful.
 InstantWP should be a power tool for WordPress beginners and experts, theme
 designers or software developers.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
InstantWP is free, like WordPress :) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For more information please visit the main InstantWP website: 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "http://www.instantwp.com"
target "http://www.instantwp.com"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the source code, please visit the InstantWP GitHub repo: 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "https://github.com/corvideon/InstantWP"
target "https://github.com/corvideon/InstantWP"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
